---
title: [[CLM]] - The originality of the resulting product design is influenced by the extent of analogical transfer, the type of analogies used, and the presence of external primes.
url: https://roamresearch.com/#/app/megacoglab/page/tkuwQvAyF
author: Jason Ding
date: Wed Apr 20 2022 19:37:23 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---



###### Discourse Context

- **Supported By::** [[EVD - Encouraging the access of multiple base domains during the idea-generation stage can improve design originality in the absence of an external prime. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]
- **Supported By::** [[EVD - The existence of any concrete example inhibits students' use of far analogies in the design task. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]
- **Supported By::** [[EVD - Student subjects who are encouraged to access multiple base domains in the design task will a...an will those who are encouraged to access only one domain. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]
- **Supported By::** [[EVD - The percentage of far analogies had a statistically significant, but small, positive effect on originality of designs generated by students. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]
- **Supported By::** [[EVD - The external prime (example) reduced design originality by structuring the form of the design. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]
- **Supported By::** [[EVD - Student subjects in the no prime (example)multiple base of analogies condition produced desig...w and wo primes and single basemultiple bases of analogies. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]
- **Supported By::** [[EVD - The states when an idea was generated in the form of an analogy were shown by verbal protocols to play a prominent role for all four design teams. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]
- **Supported By::** [[EVD - The percentage of analogies used by designers had a statistically significant effect on origi...duct designs judged by potential customers of that product. - @dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]

###### References

[[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]

- [[[[CLM]] - The originality of the resulting product design is influenced by the extent of analogical transfer, the type of analogies used, and the presence of external primes.]]

    - [[SupportedBy]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - The percentage of analogies used by designers had a statistically significant effect on originality of product designs judged by potential customers of that product. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - The states when an idea was generated in the form of an analogy were shown by verbal protocols to play a prominent role for all four design teams. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - Student subjects in the no prime (example)/multiple base of analogies condition produced designs that were statistically more original than the other combinations of w/ and w/o primes and single base/multiple bases of analogies. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - The external prime (example) reduced design originality by structuring the form of the design. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - The percentage of far analogies had a statistically significant, but small, positive effect on originality of designs generated by students. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - Student subjects who are encouraged to access multiple base domains in the design task will access a higher proportion of far analogies than will those who are encouraged to access only one domain. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - The existence of any concrete example inhibits students' use of far analogies in the design task. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]

        - [[[[EVD]] - Encouraging the access of multiple base domains during the idea-generation stage can improve design originality in the absence of an external prime. - [[@dahlInfluenceValueAnalogical2002]]]]
