---
title: @meccaImitationCreativityBeneficial2013
url: https://roamresearch.com/#/app/megacoglab/page/8330RaHnz
author: Joel Chan
date: Sun Jan 16 2022 04:47:38 GMT+0800 (Malaysia Time)
---

- Title:: Imitation and Creativity: Beneficial Effects of Propulsion Strategies and Specificity
- Author(s):: [[Jensen T. Mecca]]
- Abstract:: Prior studies examining imitation of exemplar solutions have produced a mixed pattern of findings with some studies indicating that exemplar imitation contributes to creative problem-solving and other studies indicating that it may inhibit creative problem-solving. In the present effort, it is argued that the effects of exemplar imita-tion on creative problem-solving depend on the strategies people use when working with exemplars. In the present study, people were asked to provide advertising campaigns in response to a marketing problem. Prior to starting work on this problem, manipulations were made in exemplar content. Imitation strategies used in problem-solving, for example, forward incrementation, and redefinition, were assessed. It was found that imitation strategies were strongly related to the produc-tion of higher quality, more original, and more elegant advertising campaigns. Moreover, use of these strategies was facilitated when more specific information was presented in exemplar solutions. The implications of these findings for understand-ing the role of imitation in creative problem-solving are discussed.
- Type:: [[Article]]
- Publication:: The Journal of Creative Behavior
- Date Added:: [[June 23rd, 2021]]
- Zotero links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2451508/items/AZHYMLN8), [Local library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2451508/items/AZHYMLN8)
- Tags:: [[Creativity]]
- PDF links : [Mecca_Mumford_2013_Imitation and Creativity.pdf](zotero://open-pdf/groups/2451508/items/4663C3EC)
- [[Notes]]

    - (7) &quot;real-world&quot; like problem(21) so this implies that it is really the *way* you deal with examples more so than the *kind* of example that really matters?(15) (15) (25) (15) (5) this is most interesting and relevant to my current work: in its strong form, it implies that measured effects of distance might be fairly volatile, depending on whether or not people actually use the propulsion strategies associated with far sources(10) really??(2) weird! this seems counter-intuitive. i&apos;d like to see the confidence intervals on that correlation, and how the examples were rated for creativity(17) (7) (16) (26) (6) also &quot;average intelligence&quot; (for college students)(18) this makes me nervous(11) sloppy!(3) (15) (16) (12) why not a simple factor analysis? i&apos;m also skeptical without seeing the full correlation matrix (e.g., why does forward incrementation have an effect, but not advanced forward incrementation? is it because there is little variance? or multicollinearity?)(3) it matters what features are salient(19) (7) who were the judges?(16) (14) (21) (15) (6) bad hypothesis! we haven&apos;t even really defined what is &quot;more effective&quot; for propulsion strategies! interesting one to explore would be &quot;wider range of strategies&quot;(15) (17) (12) no way‼!(4) (3) not clear to me how incrementation and replication are different? and (b) doesn&apos;t really seem to fit? seems to be an enabler of (c) or (d)?(15) (2) (7) (17) (9) (3) but i don&apos;t see how this connects with the point that it matters *how* you work with examples. no info on that in this study!(9) this seems related to steven&apos;s work (or is it tat koon&apos;s?) where they manipulated whether the challenge sponsors endorsed or didn&apos;t endorse exemplars(3) these are even more confusing. it&apos;s not clear to me how replacement and extension are different...

    - (3) but i don&apos;t see how this connects with the point that it matters *how* you work with examples. no info on that in this study!(26) (7) &quot;real-world&quot; like problem(3) it matters what features are salient(21) (17) (4) (3) these are even more confusing. it&apos;s not clear to me how replacement and extension are different...(15) (9) (15) (6) bad hypothesis! we haven&apos;t even really defined what is &quot;more effective&quot; for propulsion strategies! interesting one to explore would be &quot;wider range of strategies&quot;(11) sloppy!(15) (17) (25) (7) who were the judges?(10) (6) also &quot;average intelligence&quot; (for college students)(15) (18) this makes me nervous(15) (2) (5) this is most interesting and relevant to my current work: in its strong form, it implies that measured effects of distance might be fairly volatile, depending on whether or not people actually use the propulsion strategies associated with far sources(7) (12) no way‼!(15) (19) (21) so this implies that it is really the *way* you deal with examples more so than the *kind* of example that really matters?(3) (3) not clear to me how incrementation and replication are different? and (b) doesn&apos;t really seem to fit? seems to be an enabler of (c) or (d)?(2) weird! this seems counter-intuitive. i&apos;d like to see the confidence intervals on that correlation, and how the examples were rated for creativity(10) really??(17) (12) why not a simple factor analysis? i&apos;m also skeptical without seeing the full correlation matrix (e.g., why does forward incrementation have an effect, but not advanced forward incrementation? is it because there is little variance? or multicollinearity?)(9) this seems related to steven&apos;s work (or is it tat koon&apos;s?) where they manipulated whether the challenge sponsors endorsed or didn&apos;t endorse exemplars(7) (15)

###### Discourse Context

- **Informs::** [[THE - interaction-oriented theory of creative inspiration from examples]]
