---
title: @siangliulueCollaborativeIdeationScale2015
url: https://roamresearch.com/#/app/megacoglab/page/Yd2doeMNN
author: Joel Chan
date: Thu Aug 12 2021 23:12:45 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---

- #[[references]]

    - Title: Toward Collaborative Ideation at Scale: Leveraging Ideas from Others to Generate More Creative and Diverse Ideas

    - Meta:

        - Authored by:: [[Pao Siangliulue]] [[Kenneth C. Arnold]] [[Krzysztof Z. Gajos]] [[Steven P. Dow]]

        - Year: [[2015]]

        - Publication: Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing

        - Zotero link: [Zotero Link](zotero://select/items/7_UJVPWKFE)

        - URL: [Siangliulue et al. (2015). Toward Collaborative Ideation at Scale: Leveraging Ideas from Others to Generate More Creative and Diverse Ideas. Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing](undefined)

    - Content

        - Abstract

            - A growing number of large online collaborative idea generation platforms promise that by ideating together, people can create better ideas than any would have alone. But how might these platforms best leverage the number and diversity of contributors to help each contributor generate even better ideas? Prior research suggests that seeing examples of ideas generated by others can improve ones own ideation outcomes, but the benefit may depend on how creative and how diverse (i.e., different from each other) these examples are. There already exist scalable crowd-powered mechanisms to evaluate creativity of individual ideas, but few options exist for assessing the diversity of ideas. We contribute a new scalable crowd-powered method for evaluating the diversity of sets of ideas. The method relies on simple comparisons of similarity (is idea A more similar to B or C?) generated by a large number of non-expert contributors. We build on prior work on multidimensional scaling and active similarity learning techniques to create an abstract spatial idea map. Our validation study reveals that human raters agree with the estimates of dissimilarity derived from our idea map as much or more than they agree with each other. The results of our main experiment demonstrate that diverse sets of examples generated automatically using our idea map improve the diversity of ideas generated by participants compared to seeing randomly selected examples. Our results also corroborate findings from prior research showing that people presented with creative examples generated more creative ideas than those who saw a set of random examples. We see this work as a step toward building more effective online systems for supporting large scale collective ideation.
- Title:: Toward Collaborative Ideation at Scale: Leveraging Ideas from Others to Generate More Creative and Diverse Ideas
- Author(s):: [[Pao Siangliulue]], [[Kenneth C. Arnold]], [[Krzysztof Z. Gajos]], [[Steven P. Dow]]
- Abstract:: A growing number of large online collaborative idea generation platforms promise that by ideating together, people can create better ideas than any would have alone. But how might these platforms best leverage the number and diversity of contributors to help each contributor generate even better ideas? Prior research suggests that seeing examples of ideas generated by others can improve ones own ideation outcomes, but the benefit may depend on how creative and how diverse (i.e., different from each other) these examples are. There already exist scalable crowd-powered mechanisms to evaluate creativity of individual ideas, but few options exist for assessing the diversity of ideas. We contribute a new scalable crowd-powered method for evaluating the diversity of sets of ideas. The method relies on simple comparisons of similarity (is idea A more similar to B or C?) generated by a large number of non-expert contributors. We build on prior work on multidimensional scaling and active similarity learning techniques to create an abstract spatial idea map. Our validation study reveals that human raters agree with the estimates of dissimilarity derived from our idea map as much or more than they agree with each other. The results of our main experiment demonstrate that diverse sets of examples generated automatically using our idea map improve the diversity of ideas generated by participants compared to seeing randomly selected examples. Our results also corroborate findings from prior research showing that people presented with creative examples generated more creative ideas than those who saw a set of random examples. We see this work as a step toward building more effective online systems for supporting large scale collective ideation.
- Type:: [[Conference paper]]
- Publication::
- Date Added:: [[August 1st, 2021]]
- Zotero links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2451508/items/UJVPWKFE), [Local library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2451508/items/UJVPWKFE)
- Tags:: #[[crowdsourcing]], #[[Ideation]], #[[Stimuli diversity effects]], #[[synthesis]]
- PDF links : [Siangliulue et al_2015_Toward Collaborative Ideation at Scale.pdf](zotero://open-pdf/groups/2451508/items/FS5X7G2D)

###### Discourse Context

- **Informs::** [[QUE - Under what conditions do diverse initial examples lead to better final design solutions]]
- **Informs::** [[QUE - How can we conceptualize diversity in creative knowledge work]]
- **Informs::** [[THE - interaction-oriented theory of creative inspiration from examples]]

###### References

[[August 12th, 2021]]

- off the top of my head, pao's stuff is relevant: [[@siangliulueCollaborativeIdeationScale2015]]

    - cites [[@nijstadCognitiveStimulationInterference2002]] as support. which reminds me that there's a ton of cites from my diss that we can draw on
[[THE - interaction-oriented theory of creative inspiration from examples]]

- i don't know of many ~~there aren't a lot of~~ examples of interfaces for (re)contextualizing - requires a model of ideas! trying to get there though! see [[Stephen MacNeil]]'s stuff, for example, or [[@siangliulueCollaborativeIdeationScale2015]]

    - update [[June 30th, 2022]]: there's a pretty good thread of such interfaces in domains with good world models, like visual design; see [here](systems that kind of get at this [contextualizing](((rANFip5zr))) thingy; cc [[Jason Ding]])
