---
title: @smithCovid19KnownUnknowns2020
url: https://roamresearch.com/#/app/megacoglab/page/6PoJFF6PC
author: Joel Chan
date: Wed Oct 21 2020 13:33:34 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---

- #[[references]]

    - Title: Covid-19’s known unknowns

    - Meta:

        - Authored by:: [[George Davey Smith]] [[Michael Blastland]] [[Marcus Munafò]]

        - Year: [[2020]]

        - Zotero link:: [Zotero Link](zotero://select/items/1_DVUXCMC2)

        - URL: https://www.bmj.com/content/371/bmj.m3979

    - #quotes

        - We could find similar examples for every aspect of covid-19 science—discussions of whether viral mutation is changing SARS-CoV-2 infectiousness or virulence, the extent of personal immunity to SARS-CoV-2 generated by previous infection with SARS-CoV-2 or another endemic coronavirus, the infection fatality rate, the value of different testing strategies, the effect of school closures, what we can learn from international comparisons, and so on. Strongly contrasting but apparently equally authoritative statements are made about all of these and more.

        - Another comes in the form of the “armchair epidemiologist” who seems blessed with the astounding ability of star economists and physicists to fully assimilate and transcend within weeks what infectious disease specialists have learnt over decades. The seriousness with which they are received in some circles is likely to be damaging. Similar over-reaching is seen within the broad range of disciplines that are central to epidemic disease management, with some academics who are ubiquitous across every media appearing to have complete and cutting edge knowledge on everything from macroeconomics through sociological and psychological science to stochastic RNA mutation. Dealing with pandemics is an inherently multidisciplinary task, and expertise in one area does not confer expertise in another.

        - When deciding whom to listen to in the covid-19 era, we should respect those who respect uncertainty, and listen in particular to those who acknowledge conflicting evidence on even their most strongly held views. Commentators who are utterly consistent, and see whatever new data or situation emerge through the lens of their pre-existing views—be it “Let it rip” or “Zero covid now”—would fail this test.

###### Discourse Context



###### References

[[October 21st, 2020]]

- [[@smithCovid19KnownUnknowns2020]]

    - {{embed: #quotes}}
