---
title: @vosniadouMentalModelsEarth1992
url: https://roamresearch.com/#/app/megacoglab/page/lwfdixJAK
author: Joel Chan
date: Thu Nov 04 2021 12:37:37 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---

- Title:: Mental Models of the Earth: A Study of Conceptual Change in Childhood
- Author(s):: [[S. Vosniadou]], [[W. F. Brewer]]
- Abstract:: This paper presents the results of an experiment which investigated elementary school childrens conceptual knowledge about the earth. First-, 3rd-, and 5th- grade children were asked a series of questions about the shape of the earth. Childrens responses to these questions revealed considerable apparent inconsistency. For example, many children said that the earth is round but also stated that it has an end or edge from which people could fall. A great deal of this apparent inconsistency could be explained by assuming that the children used, in a con- sistent fashion, a mental model of the earth other than the spherical earth model. Five alternative mental models of the earth were identified: the rectangular earth, the disc earth, the dual earth, the hollow sphere, and the flattened sphere. It is argued that these models are constrained by certain presuppositions which children form based on interpretations of their everyday experience. Some of these models (the rectangular earth and the disc earth) seem to be initial models children construct before they are exposed to the culturally accepted information that the earth is a sphere. In the process of knowledge acquisition, children appear to modify their initial models to make them more consistent with the culturally accepted model by gradually reinterpreting their presuppositions. Synthetic mod- els (such as the hollow sphere and the flattened sphere) are generated by children as a solution to the problems arising from the inconsistency between their initial model of a flat earth and the culturally accepted, scientific model of a spherical earth. Children come to understand that the earth is a sphere only when the presuppositions that gave rise to their initial models have been reinterpreted.
- Type:: [[Article]]
- Publication:: Cognitive Psychology
- Date Added:: [[July 31st, 2021]]
- Zotero links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2451508/items/SVLTS69K), [Local library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2451508/items/SVLTS69K)
- Tags:: #[[Concepts]], #[[Conceptual change]], #[[Development]], #[[Education and instruction]], #[[In vivo]], #[[Processed]]
- PDF links : [Vosniadou_Brewer_1992_Mental Models of the Earth.pdf](zotero://open-pdf/groups/2451508/items/T8WHR7PL)
- [[Notes]]

    - (0) Explicit criteria for identifying children&apos;s ideas Information regarding the systematicity, consistency, and robustness of notions How can children be classified as holding a given notion Are these notions used in a consistent and systematic fashion by children assigned to those notions The authors conducted a cross-sectional study of children&apos;s intuitive understandings of the earth via structured interviews with 60 elementary school-aged children. Interviews consisted of a series of factual and generative questions about the earth designed to elicit both verbal explanations and drawings. Of special interest were response patterns to generative questions, which reference phenomena not typically taught to students as facts (e.g., if you kept walking in a straight line, where would you end up?) - these questions were designed and hypothesized to elicit reasoning with mental models, which would then provide a window into the children&apos;s presuppositions and conceptualizations about the shape of the earth. Children&apos;s responses to questions were classified into categories. A small number of alternative mental models (posited based on prior work) were then used to generate expected response patterns, using the response categories generated from the protocol data. These expected response patterns were compared with observed response patterns and were used to classify children as holding particular models of the earth, including the scientifically accurate &quot;sphere&quot; model, and various alternative models, including a &quot;flat&quot; earth model, and synthetic &quot;hollow earth&quot; and &quot;pancake-shaped earth&quot; models. By positing a relatively small number of mental models, the authors were able to account for the response patterns of a substantial majority (84%) of the participants. The authors posited an explanation of these mental models in terms of a small set of foundational presuppositions, hypothesized to be extracted from everyday experience. These presuppositions are hypothesized to constrain the space of possible alternative mental models of the earth that children can construct. Overall, the results suggest that children&apos;s intuitive ideas about the earth are internally consistent and well-defined, and can be explained in terms of presuppositions within a coherent explanatory framework. These presuppositions are deep-seated, and the retaining of these presupposition explains the development of synthetic models of the earth as children attempt to reconcile their existing presuppositions to the scientific information they learn in school; ultimately, conceptual change requires a revision of certain key presuppositions.

###### Discourse Context



###### References

[[November 4th, 2021]]

- Reminds me of [[conceptual change]] stuff: misconceptions are necessary routes to proper understanding - short-circuiting this process can be fatal e.g., [[@vosniadouMentalModelsEarth1992]]

    - [[desirable difficulty]]?

    - see also: [[[[CLM]] - Paths to creative breakthroughs are frequently oblique]], such as [[@gruberDarwinManPsychological1974]]: Gruber proposes the idea of "[[by-productive thinking]]” (possible [examples of](#[[example-of]]) [[[[CLM]] - Paths to creative breakthroughs are frequently oblique]]).

    - although these remindings might be too high level, about needing to "bump" on the way to the thing we want
